= BUGS Reporting - How To... =

This page contains the bugs report. The bug reporting has to be described as above:
  * Assign an _Unique ID_ to it. Please see the IDs list at the end of this page. Each ID starts with some digits followed by an underscore and the a name that you want to assign to it. The start digits are consecutive! The ID is the title of the section related to this bug.
  * The description contains at least the following information
    # the date when the bug is reported (format: _YYYY-MM-DD_);
    # a description that clearly explains what is the problem;
    # the used SO and JDK (including versions);
    # optionally, a short description of the PC (CPU, RAM, Video Card,...)
    # optionally, a screen shot that may shows the effects;
    # optionally, a description on how we can replicate the bug.
  * The status: _SOLVED_ or _NOT SOLVED_.


= BUGS List =

== 0001_Colision_without_collision ==

  * *Published: 2009-05-25*
  * *Description:* Physical Objects/Agents are colliding with 'imaginary' physical agents/objects on the simulation scene. Collisions are produced by some already destroyed objects, that were removed from scene. 
  * *SO & JDK:* Linux OpenSuse 11.1 32Bits JDK 1.6.07, Windows XP Professional 32 Bits JDK 1.6.13
  * *PC Configuration:* Laptop, Intel Core2Duo, 1.83Ghz, 2Gb DDR2 667 MHz, GForce GO 7400.
  * *Replicate:* Create a simulation that destroy some objects during collisions and then wait for other collisions.
  * *State: NOT SOLVED*


= BUG IDs List =

0001_Colision_without_collision