#summary A list of simulation scenario examples in the area of social sciences.

= Social Sciences Simulation Examples =

== The Schelling Segregation Model ==

This is possibly the most prominent social simulation example, originally developed as a  chess board game with pennies and dimes, by [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_Schelling Thomas C. Schelling], who is a co-recipient of the 2005 Nobel Prize in Economics. The simulation suggests that even if individuals tolerate diversity, if they also remain uneasy about being a minority in the locality, segregation will still be the equilibrium situation.

[http://oxygen.informatik.tu-cottbus.de/aors/examples/SocialScience/SchellingSegregationModel/scenario.xml View/Download Basic Version] (Download with Right-Click and "Save Link As") 

== The Blind Jumper (Language as an Emerging Social Phenomena) ==

This model has been created on 20090821 by Gerd Wagner. It is based on the paper "[http://peter.fleissner.org/petergre/documents/blinderspringer.html Beyond the Chinese Room: The blind jumper] - Self-organised semantics and pragmatics on the computer" by Peter Fleissner and Gregor Fleissner (published in W. Hofkirchner (Ed.), Information und Selbstorganisation - Annäherungen an eine vereinheitlichte Theorie der Information, Innsbruck Wien: Studien-Verlag, pp. 325-340, 1998.). See also the [http://igw.tuwien.ac.at/peterf/springer/default.htm original implementation] by the authors.

In this model, there are two agents and one object, the barrier. One agent (the "jumper")  is not able to see the width of the barrier over which it has to jump, whereas the other one (the "speaker") can see how wide the barrier is and tries to communicate this to the jumper. However, both agents first have to learn using symbols for communicating the width of the barrier. Both agents can perceive the success or failure of a jump (a jump fails if it is too short or too long), and then update their symbol interpretation function accordingly.

[http://oxygen.informatik.tu-cottbus.de/aors/examples/SocialScience/TheBlindJumper/scenario.xml View/Download Basic Version] (Download with Right-Click and "Save Link As") 