#summary A list of simulation scenario examples (for learning and getting inspiration).
#labels Featured

= Simulation Scenario Examples =

A _*simulation scenario*_ is an XML file that you can 
  * _*view*_ in your Web browser (if it supports XSLT);
  * download (by right-clicking the link and choosing "save link as") and then
    * _*inspect*_ it with the help of an XML editor (e.g. [http://sourceforge.net/projects/xml-copy-editor/ XML Copy]);
    * _*run*_ on your computer as a Java program with AOR-!JavaSim;
    * _*run*_ in your Web browser by submitting it to the Simulario server (forthcoming)

AOR simulation models and simulation scenarios are expressed in a high-level declarative language (AORSL). This makes them more readable and more accessible compared to other simulation frameworks (such as Netlogo and !RePast). Consequently, the AOR simulation model library  is a valuable resource for those who want to study or do research in simulation. We plan to continuously extend it.

The following examples are classified according to their topic domain. 

== Management ==

=== Service Queue ===

This example has been created on 20081001 by Gerd Wagner.

Customers arrive at random times at a service desk where they have to wait in a queue when the service desk is busy. The time between two customer arrivals is uniformly distributed between 1 and 8 minutes. The times for completing a service vary from 1 to 6 minutes, with probabilities 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.25, 0.1, 0.05, respectively. An arriving customer is represented by a newly generated object, which is destroyed again, when this customer leaves the system. The customer in service is represented by the first/topmost item in the First-In-First-Out queue, while the remaining items of the queue represent the waiting line. The goal is to collect the mean response time statistics (the length of time a customer spends in the system).

[http://oxygen.informatik.tu-cottbus.de/aors/examples/Management/ServiceQueue_withoutActivities/scenario.xml View/Download Basic Model]

[http://oxygen.informatik.tu-cottbus.de/aors/examples/Management/ServiceQueue_withActivity/scenario.xml View/Download Extended Model Using an Activity]


=== Drive Thru Restaurant ===

This example has been created on 20090331 by Oana Nicolae and Gerd Wagner. It is based on the paper [http://www.informs-sim.org/wsc08papers/005.pdf Introduction to Simulation] by R.G. Ingalls (published in Proceedings of the 2008 Winter Simulation Conference). 

As a car enters from the street, the driver, who we will call Fred, decides whether or not to get in line. If Fred decides to leave the restaurant, he leaves as a dissatisfied customer. If Fred decides to get in line, then he waits until the menu board is available. At that time, Fred gives the order to the order taker. After the order is taken, then two things occur simultaneously:
  # Fred moves forward if there is room, otherwise he has to wait at the menu board until there is room to move forward.
  # The order is sent electronically back to the kitchen where it is prepared as soon as the cook is available.
  # As soon as Fred reaches the pickup window, then he pays and picks up his food, if it is ready. If the food is not ready, then Fred has to wait until his order is prepared.

[http://oxygen.informatik.tu-cottbus.de/aors/examples/Management/DriveThruRestaurant-withoutAgentsAndActivities/scenario.xml View/Download Basic Version]

In the basic version, the menu board order taker, the kitchen and the pickup window are modeled as objects.

[http://oxygen.informatik.tu-cottbus.de/aors/examples/Management/DriveThruRestaurant_AgentBased/scenario.xml View/Download an Agent-Based Version]

In the agent-based version, the menu board order taker, the kitchen and the pickup window are modeled as agents that communicate with each other by exchanging messages.

[http://oxygen.informatik.tu-cottbus.de/aors/examples/Management/DriveThruRestaurant-withAgentsAndActivities/scenario.xml View/Download an Extended Agent-Based Version Using Activities]

In the extended agent-based version, the services of the menu board order taker, the kitchen and the pickup window are modeled as activities.


== Social Sciences ==

=== The Schelling Segregation Model (forthcoming) ===

=== The Blind Jumper (Language as an Emerging Social Phenomena, forthcoming) ===


== Biology ==

=== Predator and Prey ===

This example has been created on 20090627 by Roland Kölbel. It simulates a predator and prey ecosystem. The predators use the prey as their food resource. On the other hand the prey needs food to survive. Food itself regrows randomly depending on the presence of a food resource.

[http://oxygen.informatik.tu-cottbus.de/aors/examples/Biology/PredatorAndPrey/PredatorAndPrey.xml View/Download]